
SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) 

   It is a process used by the software industry to design, develop and test high quality 
softwares.  SDLC aims to produce a high-quality software that meets or exceeds 
customer expectations. 

SDLC contains total 6 phases known as

1) Planning and Requirement analysis

   Planning is the crucial step, when we need to start any project or
requirement from the client, we need to check the factors of

	-> Infra
	-> Manpower
	-> Timelines
	-> Costing 

The information from this analysis forms the building block of the project,
The quality of the project is result of planning. Here the basic 
project designed with all available information. 

2) Defining Requirements : In this stage, all the requirements for the
target software are applied. These requirements sent to higher authorities
for approval, there we can see for alternatives for this. After fulfillment,
SRS (Software Requirement Specification) document created. This is a sort
of document that specifies all those things that need to be defined and created 
during the entire project cycle.

3) Design : It is the heart for entire project, which defines the flow of 
the project, as what is the entry point, what are the timelines for all
features, who is responsible for what. If any slippage how to handle. This design document can be provided by Product Architect known as DDS (Design Document Specification), After finalizing only it would be released for team members. 

4) Development : In this stage, we need to choose any programming language to develop the application as per DDS, Developers must follow coding guidelines defined by their organization and programming tools like compilers etc... As the end product getting developed. 

5) Testing : This stage where we need to test the product with all corner case scenarios, if any defects found, then they are send for escalation and rectification. 

6) Maitenance : Once product tested, it is ready to use and deployed, here we need to provide support to the product for specific years as per agreement. 


Testing : 
__________


1) Defect : If tester identifies something known as defect.

2) Bug : If programmer accepts the defect known as bug. 

*** All defects are not bugs, but all bugs are defects ***

3) Error : If programmer identifies any mistake in your code known as error. 

4) Fatal : If client identifies mistake in your code known as fatal.


Waterfall Model : Easiest way to implement SDLC, 
the whole process divided into separate phases. Here, we cannot go back to previous phase
No requirements will be added at the middle of the project,
No Preview of the product allowed.
High amount of risk and uncertainity.

V model : (Validation and Verification) 

Validation always happens on the product, where Verification is all about the process. 

Agile :  Agile is a software development methodology to build software w.r.t. 4 iterations

	-> Design

	-> Code

	-> Integrate

	-> Test

Agile will have major role people as 

1) Scrum Master

	Scrum master is a team lead or architect level person in team, who helps the team members to follow agile process, as they can meet their commitments. 

	-> Enable co-operation between all roles and functions

	-> Remove any gaps

	-> Solve the team members from any disturbances

	-> Work with organization and track the process 


			-> Daily Standup Meeting

			-> Planned Meetings

			-> Demos

			-> Review

			-> Retrospective Meetings


2) Product Owner

	He is the one who drives the product from business perspective. 

	   -> Define the requirements and prioritize their values

	   -> To determine the release date and contents

	   -> To take an active role in iteration planning and release planning meetings

	   -> To ensure that team is always working on most valued requirement

	   -> To represent voice of customer

	   -> Accept the user stores that meet the definition of done and dfined w.r.t. 
		acceptance criteria 



3) Cross Functional Team 

Every agile team will have 

1) Product owner 1) Scrum master 3 to 4 developers 1 TL 2 testers 3 db persons.


User Story : It is a requirement that user to be performed as a functionality. 

User Story talks about what to be done.  It defines what programmer needs. 

User Story defined into small tasks.


Example : 

Take Customer Module as an example 


Customer Module (User Story)

	-> Task 1 (Customer Registration) 2 hrs
	-> Task 2 (Customer Login) 1/2 hr

	-> Task 3 (Customer DashBoard) 16 hrs 


How to validate the user story : 

	-> All the related code to be checked in
	-> All unit cases to be passed
	-> Help Text written
	-> All acceptance test cases have been passed
	-> Product owner needs to accept
	-> Ready to deliver

What is Acceptance Criteria

In this the user story functionality, behavoiur and performance everything monitored and testd. 

At last all parameters met then only its approved

What is Daily Standup Meeting : 

Conducted in team members roughly for 15 mins

Every member has to answer

	-> What i Did yesterday

	-> What i will do today

	-> Any issues i am facing 

What is Product Backlog : 

It will be created by the product owner, 

-> Contains tasks required to be completed with dead lines

-> Team members who took the ownership of the task

-> If any individual overloaded with tasks, then actioni to be taken place. 

It acts as a roadmap to your project. 


User story strictly follows principle known as

INVEST 

Independent
Negotiable
Valuable
Estimable
Small
Testable

Agile follows priorities of MOSCOW 

Must Have

Should Have

Could Have

Wont Have 

Iterations are measures 

how to add the new requirements 

What is Meeting

What is RetroSpective Meeting 



Sprint  -> Agile projects make progress in a series of sprints. An iteration of work during which an increment of product functionality is implemented. 

Product to be designed, coded and tested during sprint. 

Sprint to be reviewed weekly worst case calendar month. 

The basic rule for sprint is, the team must not be interrupted with additional requiremnts. Any  new requirements always in next sprint only. 


How the sprint will be planned


Assume from product backlog (Healthcare project) team of 5 members to be taken PatientReports module

     -> Create a Sprint Backlog document 

	-> Task to be estimated in 1-16 hrs 

	-> its to be done by scrum master

	That Sprint backlog contains as 

	 (coding) 16 hrs

	(UI) 14 hrs

	(Testing) 4hrs

	(Coding for ApproveDeny Module) 16hrs

	(Coding for InsuranceApproval) 16hrs 
	Perormance testing 12hrs 



Another Example : 

Take GIT as product Backlog 

   Git Lifecycle (0.5 hrs)
   Git basic commands (1 hrs)
   Git Branches (0.5 hrs)
   Git Merge Conflicts (2 hrs)
   Git Rebase (1 hr)

Any new requirement to be added in new sprint. 

Sprint Meeting (Review) 

	

Sprint RetroSpective Meeting


  What went well

  What are the areas of improvement

  Actions to be taken place 


When all requirements happend sprint closure takes place.

Sprint Termination : 

  Team terminates as cannot meeting goal
  Product Owner terminates because of change of requirement
   






































